This picture is called “Kayumars enthroned”. Here, we see at the center of the photo, Kayumars.
The King of Kings. Sitting above everyone upon his red throne, he reigns above everyone and everything.
Believed to be the first man alive according to ancient Iranian Zionists beliefs,
he is compared to and may be synonymous to Adam as the first man
as the majority of the current Iranian population is now Muslim.
Being the king of kings. He is not only the king of humans
He is the king of all beings. Even animals submit to him.
In his presence, they are calm. Interacting freely between each other. Adorned with garms of leopards
His followers do not stand up straight but in a hunched position as a form of respect.
By his side, sits his son, the young, Siyamak.
Together they lived a peaceful life upon their mountaintop home
But one day, the Angel Surush appeared. He warn him Kayumar that he, has a challenger.
Not to far away from him the evil div or as you would say now,Demon Ahiram opposes his rule.
He we see the black div Ahirm. Reigning over his respective mountain. Dominating his peak.
In relation to Kayumars, like a dark cloud he is hovering over him. A dark omen foretelling what is to come
From the information Kayumars is shocked, but his son, the young wild Siyamak. He is enraged.
He gathers his brothers and sisters and forms a war party to climb up to the mountain and slay the treacherous Ahiram
and slay the treacherous Ahiram
Here we see a vicious young leopard attacking; coming face to face to face with the demon Ahiram.
His teeth are bare, yet there is an obvious difference in power.
The demon Ahiram stands above him and is larger and therefore has the “upper hand” in this battle.
This young leopard resembles Siyamak. Adorned in his leopard pelt.
Preparing to battle the powerful demon
Upon meeting this vicious demon, Siyamak by his lonesome attacks the evil div.
Entangled in a vicious grappling match, he is ultimately bested by the powerful demon and so the evil Ahiram
mounted upon the young Siyamak, impales him with his black claws and rips him from head to toe.
Broken and shocked by the overwhelming loss of their  leader,
Siyamaks troops withdraw and returns to Kayumars mountain to tell him of what just occurred
Upon hearing the news; Overcome by grief, Kayumars wails in pain.
With his nails, tearing his face and body apart, he is heartbroken
That day, everyone cried. Cheeks were red as wine making tears look as if they were blood.
Even Kayumars Beasts could be heard crying in anguish. The once peaceful mountain was now filled with mourning .
and so one year had passed, and the Angel Suresh returned. Carrying the message of God, he tells Kayumars
“return to that mountain once again and eliminate that vile div
Turn him to dust and eliminate the vengeance form your heart”
That day, Kayumars stopped crying.
He wiped his tears and prepared his counterattack for the being who stole his most blessed son from him.